Our React application will now connect to a single backend for frontend service,
which will interact with the portfolio and support services via REST.
Our MVC web application will also connect to the portfolio and support services.
Let's start with the React public clients.
Its backend for frontend service is a standard RESTful resource server.
The React application will send the access token to it,
the resource server will validate it using the keys from Keycloak,
and then use the same token to make the request to
the portfolio or support services.
Now to do that, the BFF service will use a WebClient,
and to set one up is simple.
In a demo BFF service, we created a WebClientConfiguration class,
which has a method annotated as a bean that returns an instance of a WebClient.
You can use the WebClient class builder to create an instance and return that.
Now you can autowire this WebClient instance to any of your classes.
In the portfolio controller,
we use the WebClient to make the request to the portfolio service.
Here we are using the block method because WebClient is asynchronous.
Block will force it to wait for the response.
So it behaves just like a RestTemplate call.
Now the portfolio service will require a valid token.
So to include the access token in the request to the portfolio service,
the WebClient has a convenient headers method,
which you can use to add the authorization token.
And it also has a convenient setBearerAuth method.
All you need to do is pass in the access token.
Now you can source the token from the authentication object,
which you can retrieve either from the SecurityContext,
which you can receive from the SecurityContextHolder.
Or a cleaner and simpler approach is to use the
AuthenticationPrincipal annotation.
Spring will source and cast it for you.
The JWT authentication object has an accessor to retrieve the token value,
which you can then use in your header via the WebClient's headers method.
Easy peasy, right?
Now in our Spring MVC implementation,
the only difference is the way we retrieve the access token as
the MVC client is not a resource server,
but a client.
So it already has the access token stored in its
authenticated client repository.
Hence,
we can use the RegisteredOAuth2AuthorizedClient annotation to
retrieve the OAuth2AuthorizedClient object from this repository
and then source the token from there.
Now there are a few issues with this approach.
Firstly, if the token expires before we make the request,
the portfolio service will simply reject it.
And because we're adding the token manually to the header,
we would need to check the expiry of the token ourselves and then take
the appropriate action before sending out the request.
Next,
we will look at an alternative way of including the token
for outbound requests using the ExchangeFilter function that can address this issue.